okay quick space riddle why is the
search for
life in the universe like a tree because
you're always looking for a place to
plant it
you know plant it plant it okay settle
down
anyway water is the basis of life in any
part of the universe
so potentially inhabited planets must
have liquid water on them to support
life an incredible number of
circumstances must come together for
this
the planet must be in the habitable zone
of the star
then the temperature and atmospheric
pressure on the planet's surface
will be suitable for simple life forms
to begin to evolve
a little closer to the star and the
water will evaporate
leaving no chance for oceans and seas to
form
this is what happened on venus it has a
size and mass
similar to the earth but it's too close
to the sun
and no life can exist on its surface too
far from the star
and the planet becomes too cold water
can only exist in the form of ice on the
surface
and there just might be liquid water
deep below
neptune is one example of this in
addition
the planet must be solid and have an
atmosphere that protects it from solar
radiation
and allows living organisms to breathe
in our galaxy alone there are countless
stars
really you can't count on them near each
one of them may be a planet
they're called exoplanets and some of
them may be in the habitable zone
and have everything for life to form on
them from a list of 4
500 known exoplanets scientists have
identified
24 that can be super habitable
this is the type of planet that is
suitable for the existence and evolution
of life
even more than the earth such planets
must be
twice as massive as the earth and 1.3
times
larger a bigger size means stronger
gravity
and a denser and warmer atmosphere this
will ensure a greater diversity of all
living organisms on the planet
in addition we should pay attention to
the host star
around which the super habitable planets
will orbit
and there should be a mcdonald's nearby
ideally it should be smaller than the
sun
and have a lifespan of at least 15 to 30
billion years
for comparison the lifespan of the sun
is under 10 billion years
and it took about 4 billion for complex
life forms to appear here
stars such as the sun can't simply run
out of fuel
before life can develop on its exoplanet
scientists suggest focusing on dwarf
stars they're smaller and less
luminous than the sun but their lifespan
can be between
20 and 70 billion years this will give
living organisms
enough time to develop and evolve
climactic conditions on super habitable
planets will also be different
the average temperature should be eight
degrees fahrenheit
higher than on earth and there should be
more water in the form of clouds liquid
and humidity these conditions are the
most
favorable for biodiversity so the whole
planet would be looking like
tropical forests on earth all 24
candidates for the title of
better than earth are more than 100
light years away from us
and with the advent of the new
generation of telescopes
we'll probably be able to find out
exactly if there is life there
and if the conditions there are suitable
for humans
now let's take a look at the potentially
inhabited exoplanets
tea garden b it's an exoplanet that
orbits a red dwarf star about 12 light
years away from the solar system
typically red dwarfs can emit flares
that blow away the atmosphere of the
planets in its orbit
but this host star is calm and
relatively passive
tea garden b has almost the same mass as
the earth
it makes a complete circle around its
star in about five days
yep you got it right a year on t garden
b
is less than a week on earth hold on
your hats
the furthest potential inhabited planet
is
kepler 1638b it's in the constellation
cygnus about 3 000 light years away from
us
it belongs to the super earth class is
twice as wide
and four times as heavy as our home
planet
the gravity on it will feel much
stronger even a normal jump will be much
harder for you than on earth
although if this planet is really
inhabited
local life is used to such conditions
lhs 1140b this planet is very rocky and
solid
although its size is only 40 percent
larger than the earth
it's seven times as massive it has a
strong gravity of 3.25
gs for comparison when you take off on
an
airplane you experience an overload of
about one and a half
g's so on this planet you'd barely be
able to stand on your feet
because of its large mass this planet
has a thicker
atmosphere and because of the greenhouse
effect its temperature can be above 19
degrees fahrenheit
and it rotates around its star quite
quickly it makes a full circle
in just 24 days and now let's look at
the constellation
aquarius here's an ultra cold dwarf
trappist-1 a small planet orbits in its
habitable zone
it's three times lighter than the earth
its temperature is similar to ours
but the gravity is half as weak but we
would still feel comfortable there
remember the people that went to the
moon there the gravity is only 16
of the earth's that's what makes the
astronauts move so funny
kepler-452b is in a system that
resembles the older sister of ours
the host star is only 11 percent older
than our sun
and is almost 2 billion years older the
exoplanet itself is six and a half
billion years old
compared to four and a half billion of
earth's but these sisters are
very far from each other if you travel
at the speed of the new horizon
spacecraft
it will take about 26 million years to
get there
so bring a big lunch this
is the closest exoplanet to us proxima
centauri b
it orbits the red dwarf proxima centauri
which is the closest star to the sun
this planet is just
4.2 light years away from us its size
and mass are very similar to those of
the earth
it probably has an icy structure like
neptune
although proxima centauri is the closest
star after the sun
we can't see it with a naked eye because
it's too dim
so all these planets including the 24
that scientists have recently found
are in the habitable zone of their host
stars
and in theory we can colonize them and
make them suitable for human life in the
future
but here we'll have to solve one big
problem
even the nearest exoplanet is too far
away for
us today our modern rockets can fly at
five times the speed of sound
and even at such speeds it will take us
more than one hundred
thousand years to get to proxima
centauri on one of them
well we need to come up with something a
bit faster
to travel to a new home on one of these
exoplanets
and perhaps scientists already have the
answer
warp drive this is a piece of technology
that will allow us to manipulate space
and time
it creates a kind of a bubble in which
the normal laws of motion
don't work so the spacecraft will be
able to significantly exceed the speed
of light
and this isn't science fiction humanity
already has such technology
although just in theory yet it's
alcubierre
warp drive and no i didn't make that up
since no object that has mass can travel
at the speed of light
we need to do one trick the spacecraft
has to move by compressing the space in
front of it
and expanding it behind it thus not only
the ship is moving
but also the space time inside this warp
drive
bubble and the maximum speed can be 10
times that of light
but to warp the space time the ship must
be
incredibly large and to power it will
need the amount of
energy close to what the whole planet of
jupiter generates
still recent calculations of nasa's jet
propulsion lab
showed that the ring around the ship
which should create the so-called warp
field
shouldn't be perfectly round as it was
thought before
it can be more donut shaped ah donuts
this will greatly simplify the design
and construction
and will make it possible to test this
technology on a spacecraft the size
of a voyager 1 pro even though it still
seems impossible scientists are already
saying that there
is hope and while we don't know what
technology will be used
in 2069 nasa plans to launch its first
interstellar mission to explore
potentially habitable planets
outside of our solar system
various rumors say that the speed of
light can be achieved with laser
technology
if the probe is very small it can be
launched to the alpha centauri star
at almost the speed of light there are
also
two other alternatives to power
spaceships
these are nuclear energy and energy from
matter and anti-matter collisions
these technologies are still a mystery
to humanity though
well for the time being stay tuned